

DESCRIPTION

Students:  Please keep in mind the OMSI rules.  Save your files often,
make sure OMSI fills your entire screen at all times, etc.  Remember
that clicking CopyQtoA will copy the entire question box to the answer
box.

In questions involving code which will PARTIALLY be given to you in the
question specs, you may need add new lines.  There may not be
information given as to where the lines should be inserted.

If a question includes test code, make sure to include it in your
submission.

Do not answer any question with simulation code unless this is specified. 

MAKE SURE TO RUN THE CODE IN PROBLEMS INVOLVING CODE!  Hit the OMSI
Submit and Run button.

QUESTION 

(Text answer.) Fill in the blank with a formal term:  Our book defines
probability in terms of the long-run behavior of repeated experiments.
This is in contrast to most books, which define things in terms of a
________________________.

QUESTION 

(Text answer.) Give the number of the "mailing tube" used to go from
(2.46) to (2.47).

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript omsi_answer3.R'

(R code answer.)  Consider the problem ``Someone tells you...'' on p.21,
whose solution is in (2.55)-(2.57).  Suppose we had not realized that
the wording of the problem not only tells us L2 = 0 but also tells us L1
> 0.  We then would have found P(L1 = 1 | L2 = 0).  Find this
probability.  Feel free to use numbers already found in pp.20-22.

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript omsi_answer4.R'

(R code answer.) Jill arrives daily at a parking lot, at 9:00, 9:15 or
9:30, with probably 0.5, 0.3 and 0.2, respectively.  The probability of
there being an open space at those times is 0.6, 0.3 and 0.8,
respectively.  Find the probability that she gets a space.

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript omsi_answer5.R'

(R code answer.) In Problem 4, suppose one day she tells us that she
found a space.  Determine the most likely time she arrived, and the
probability that it was that time.  But in your answer, just show
the expression for the probability, NOT the arrival time.

