DESCRIPTION

Please keep in mind the OMSI rules.

Save your files often.

Submit each answer individually and make sure you receive the
notification of successful submission.

Don't wait till the last moment to submit all answers, as there might be
network traffic in the last 5 minutes causing unexpected delay and
failure.  

Remember that clicking CopyQtoA will copy the entire question box to the
answer box.

In questions involving code which will PARTIALLY be given to you in the
question specs, you may need to add new lines.  There may not be
information given as to where the lines should be inserted. 

MAKE SURE TO RUN THE R CODE ANSWER IN PROBLEMS THAT INVOLVE R CODE!

QUESTION

(Text answer - 20 pts) An example in lecture concerning computer
recognition in medical images.  What disease was of interest there?  And
what kind of probability was this an example of?

QUESTION

(Text answer - 20 pts) For two events A and B, if we write P(A and B) =
P(A)P(B), what assumption are we making?

QUESTION

(Text answer - 20 pts) Eqn. (2.8) gives a "mailing tube" for finding
conditional probabilities; but often we get those probabilities from
intuition rather than from this formula; give an example of this in the
book

QUESTION

(Text Answer - 20 pts) E(XY) = E(X)E(Y) if X and Y are independent. True
or False?

QUESTION

(Text answer - 20 pts) We say the mean and median are ways to quantify
the notion of "central tendency."  What is the corresponding term for
variance?

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript ./omsi_answer6.R'

(R code answer - 20 pts) In the bus ridership problem, sec 2.11 (page
20), let's say the bus has a limit of 4 passengers and we are told that
the bus left stop 1 with 2 passengers.  What is the proability that when
the bus is leaving stop 2, it has reached its limit?

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript ./omsi_answer7.R'

(R code answer - 20 pts) In the Preferential Attachment Graph Model
example, sec 2.13.1 (page 24) what is the proability that after v_5
joins the graph has a structure of a chain i.e  each node has degree
less than or equal to 2.

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript ./omsi_answer8.R'

(R code answer - 20 pts) If X and Y are two independent die rolls, what
is the support of (X-Y)?

print(c(   ))

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript ./omsi_answer9.R'

(R code answer - 20 pts) We toss a coin repeatedly until we see the
pattern "HTH".  Let N denote the number of tosses needed, e.g. for
sequence HTTHTH, N=6 Modify the code in sec. 2.14.11 to find approximate
probability of N > m. Original code is as below:

ngtm <- function (k,m, nreps ) {
	count <- 0
	for (rep in 1: nreps ) {
		consech <- 0
		for (i in 1:m) {
			toss <- sample (0:1 ,1)
			if ( toss ) {
				consech <- consech + 1
				if ( consech == k) break
			} else consech <- 0
		}
		if ( consech < k) count <- count + 1
	}
	return ( count / nreps )
} 

QUESTION -ext .R -run 'Rscript ./omsi_answer10.R'

(R code answer - 20 pts) In the Monty Hall problem, say there are 4
doors and 3 goats.  Find the value of the numerator in Eqn. (3.1).

